===========================
Thibaud Deprecation Timeline
===========================

This document outlines when various pieces of Thibaud will be removed or altered
in a backward incompatible way, following their deprecation, as per the
:ref:`deprecation policy <internal-release-deprecation-policy>`. More details
about each item can often be found in the release notes of two versions prior.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-7.0:

7.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 6.0 release notes <deprecated-features-6.0>` for more
details on these changes.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-6.1:

6.1
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 5.2 release notes <deprecated-features-5.2>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``all`` keyword argument of ``thibaud.contrib.staticfiles.finders.find()``
  will be removed.

* The fallback to ``request.user`` when ``user`` is ``None`` in
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.login()`` and ``thibaud.contrib.auth.alogin()`` will be
  removed.

* The ``ordering`` keyword argument of the PostgreSQL specific aggregation
  functions ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.aggregates.ArrayAgg``,
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.aggregates.JSONBAgg``, and
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.aggregates.StringAgg`` will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-6.0:

6.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 5.0 release notes <deprecated-features-5.0>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``ThibaudDivFormRenderer`` and ``Jinja2DivFormRenderer`` transitional form
  renderers will be removed.

* Support for passing positional arguments to ``BaseConstraint`` will be
  removed.

* ``request`` will be required in the signature of
  ``ModelAdmin.lookup_allowed()`` subclasses.

* The ``thibaud.db.models.sql.datastructures.Join`` will no longer fallback to
  ``get_joining_columns()``.

* The ``get_joining_columns()`` method of ``ForeignObject`` and
  ``ForeignObjectRel`` will be removed.

* The ``ForeignObject.get_reverse_joining_columns()`` method will be removed.

* The default scheme for ``forms.URLField`` will change from ``"http"`` to
  ``"https"``.

* Support for calling ``format_html()`` without passing args or kwargs will be
  removed.

* Support for ``cx_Oracle`` will be removed.

* ``BaseDatabaseOperations.field_cast_sql()`` will be removed.

* The ``ChoicesMeta`` alias to ``thibaud.db.models.enums.ChoicesType`` will be
  removed.

* The ``Prefetch.get_current_queryset()`` method will be removed.

* The ``get_prefetch_queryset()`` method of related managers and descriptors
  will be removed.

* ``get_prefetcher()`` and ``prefetch_related_objects()`` will no longer
  fallback to ``get_prefetch_queryset()``.

* The ``FORMS_URLFIELD_ASSUME_HTTPS`` transitional setting will be removed.

See the :ref:`Thibaud 5.1 release notes <deprecated-features-5.1>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``ModelAdmin.log_deletion()`` and ``LogEntryManager.log_action()``
  methods will be removed.

* The undocumented ``thibaud.utils.itercompat.is_iterable()`` function and the
  ``thibaud.utils.itercompat`` module will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geoip2.GeoIP2.coords()`` method will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geoip2.GeoIP2.open()`` method will be removed.

* Support for passing positional arguments to ``Model.save()`` and
  ``Model.asave()`` will be removed.

* The setter for ``thibaud.contrib.gis.gdal.OGRGeometry.coord_dim`` will be
  removed.

* ``thibaud.urls.register_converter()`` will no longer allow overriding existing
  converters.

* The ``check`` keyword argument of ``CheckConstraint`` will be removed.

* The ``OS_OPEN_FLAGS`` attribute of
  :class:`~thibaud.core.files.storage.FileSystemStorage` will be removed.

* The ``get_cache_name()`` method of ``FieldCacheMixin`` will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-5.1:

5.1
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 4.2 release notes <deprecated-features-4.2>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``BaseUserManager.make_random_password()`` method will be removed.

* The model's ``Meta.index_together`` option will be removed.

* The ``length_is`` template filter will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.auth.hashers.SHA1PasswordHasher``,
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.hashers.UnsaltedSHA1PasswordHasher``, and
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.hashers.UnsaltedMD5PasswordHasher`` will be removed.

* The model ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.CICharField``,
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.CIEmailField``, and
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.CITextField`` will be removed. Stub fields
  will remain for compatibility with historical migrations.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.CIText`` mixin will be removed.

* The ``map_width`` and ``map_height`` attributes of ``BaseGeometryWidget``
  will be removed.

* The ``SimpleTestCase.assertFormsetError()`` method will be removed.

* The ``TransactionTestCase.assertQuerysetEqual()`` method will be removed.

* Support for passing encoded JSON string literals to ``JSONField`` and
  associated lookups and expressions will be removed.

* Support for passing positional arguments to ``Signer`` and
  ``TimestampSigner`` will be removed.

* The ``DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE`` and ``STATICFILES_STORAGE`` settings will be
  removed.

* The ``thibaud.core.files.storage.get_storage_class()`` function will be
  removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-5.0:

5.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 4.0 release notes <deprecated-features-4.0>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``SERIALIZE`` test setting will be removed.

* The undocumented ``thibaud.utils.baseconv`` module will be removed.

* The undocumented ``thibaud.utils.datetime_safe`` module will be removed.

* The default value of the ``USE_TZ`` setting will change from ``False`` to
  ``True``.

* The default sitemap protocol for sitemaps built outside the context of a
  request will change from ``'http'`` to ``'https'``.

* The ``extra_tests`` argument for ``DiscoverRunner.build_suite()`` and
  ``DiscoverRunner.run_tests()`` will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.aggregates.ArrayAgg``, ``JSONBAgg``, and
  ``StringAgg`` aggregates will return ``None`` when there are no rows instead
  of ``[]``, ``[]``, and ``''`` respectively.

* The ``USE_L10N`` setting will be removed.

* The ``USE_DEPRECATED_PYTZ`` transitional setting will be removed.

* Support for ``pytz`` timezones will be removed.

* The ``is_dst`` argument will be removed from:

  * ``QuerySet.datetimes()``
  * ``thibaud.utils.timezone.make_aware()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.Trunc()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncSecond()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncMinute()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncHour()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncDay()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncWeek()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncMonth()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncQuarter()``
  * ``thibaud.db.models.functions.TruncYear()``

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.admin.GeoModelAdmin`` and ``OSMGeoAdmin`` classes
  will be removed.

* The undocumented ``BaseForm._html_output()`` method will be removed.

* The ability to return a ``str``, rather than a ``SafeString``, when rendering
  an ``ErrorDict`` and ``ErrorList`` will be removed.

See the :ref:`Thibaud 4.1 release notes <deprecated-features-4.1>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``SitemapIndexItem.__str__()`` method will be removed.

* The ``CSRF_COOKIE_MASKED`` transitional setting will be removed.

* The ``name`` argument of ``thibaud.utils.functional.cached_property()`` will
  be removed.

* The ``opclasses`` argument of
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.constraints.ExclusionConstraint`` will be removed.

* The undocumented ability to pass ``errors=None`` to
  ``SimpleTestCase.assertFormError()`` and ``assertFormsetError()`` will be
  removed.

* ``thibaud.contrib.sessions.serializers.PickleSerializer`` will be removed.

* The usage of ``QuerySet.iterator()`` on a queryset that prefetches related
  objects without providing the ``chunk_size`` argument will no longer be
  allowed.

* Passing unsaved model instances to related filters will no longer be allowed.

* ``created=True`` will be required in the signature of
  ``RemoteUserBackend.configure_user()`` subclasses.

* Support for logging out via ``GET`` requests in the
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.views.LogoutView`` and
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.views.logout_then_login()`` will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.utils.timezone.utc`` alias to ``datetime.timezone.utc`` will be
  removed.

* Passing a response object and a form/formset name to
  ``SimpleTestCase.assertFormError()`` and ``assertFormsetError()`` will no
  longer be allowed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.admin.OpenLayersWidget`` will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.auth.hashers.CryptPasswordHasher`` will be removed.

* The ``"thibaud/forms/default.html"`` and
  ``"thibaud/forms/formsets/default.html"`` templates will be removed.

* The ability to pass ``nulls_first=False`` or ``nulls_last=False`` to
  ``Expression.asc()`` and ``Expression.desc()`` methods, and the ``OrderBy``
  expression will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-4.1:

4.1
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 3.2 release notes <deprecated-features-3.2>` for more
details on these changes.

* Support for assigning objects which don't support creating deep copies with
  ``copy.deepcopy()`` to class attributes in ``TestCase.setUpTestData()`` will
  be removed.

* ``BaseCommand.requires_system_checks`` won't support boolean values.

* The ``whitelist`` argument and ``domain_whitelist`` attribute of
  ``thibaud.core.validators.EmailValidator`` will be removed.

* The ``default_app_config`` module variable will be removed.

* ``TransactionTestCase.assertQuerysetEqual()`` will no longer automatically
  call ``repr()`` on a queryset when compared to string values.

* ``thibaud.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache`` will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.2 format of messages used by
  ``thibaud.contrib.messages.storage.cookie.CookieStorage`` will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-4.0:

4.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 3.0 release notes <deprecated-features-3.0>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.utils.http.urlquote()``, ``urlquote_plus()``, ``urlunquote()``, and
  ``urlunquote_plus()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.encoding.force_text()`` and ``smart_text()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.translation.ugettext()``, ``ugettext_lazy()``,
  ``ugettext_noop()``, ``ungettext()``, and ``ungettext_lazy()`` will be
  removed.

* ``thibaud.views.i18n.set_language()`` will no longer set the user language in
  ``request.session`` (key ``thibaud.utils.translation.LANGUAGE_SESSION_KEY``).

* ``alias=None`` will be required in the signature of
  ``thibaud.db.models.Expression.get_group_by_cols()`` subclasses.

* ``thibaud.utils.text.unescape_entities()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.http.is_safe_url()`` will be removed.

See the :ref:`Thibaud 3.1 release notes <deprecated-features-3.1>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``PASSWORD_RESET_TIMEOUT_DAYS`` setting will be removed.

* The undocumented usage of the :lookup:`isnull` lookup with non-boolean values
  as the right-hand side will no longer be allowed.

* The ``thibaud.db.models.query_utils.InvalidQuery`` exception class will be
  removed.

* The ``thibaud-admin.py`` entry point will be removed.

* The ``HttpRequest.is_ajax()`` method will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 encoding format of cookies values used by
  ``thibaud.contrib.messages.storage.cookie.CookieStorage`` will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 password reset tokens in the admin site (that
  use the SHA-1 hashing algorithm) will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 encoding format of sessions will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 ``thibaud.core.signing.Signer`` signatures
  (encoded with the SHA-1 algorithm) will be removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 ``thibaud.core.signing.dumps()`` signatures
  (encoded with the SHA-1 algorithm) in ``thibaud.core.signing.loads()`` will be
  removed.

* Support for the pre-Thibaud 3.1 user sessions (that use the SHA-1 algorithm)
  will be removed.

* The ``get_response`` argument for
  ``thibaud.utils.deprecation.MiddlewareMixin.__init__()`` will be required and
  won't accept ``None``.

* The ``providing_args`` argument for ``thibaud.dispatch.Signal`` will be
  removed.

* The ``length`` argument for ``thibaud.utils.crypto.get_random_string()`` will
  be required.

* The ``list`` message for ``ModelMultipleChoiceField`` will be removed.

* Support for passing raw column aliases to ``QuerySet.order_by()`` will be
  removed.

* The model ``NullBooleanField`` will be removed. A stub field will remain for
  compatibility with historical migrations.

* ``thibaud.conf.urls.url()`` will be removed.

* The model ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.JSONField`` will be removed. A
  stub field will remain for compatibility with historical migrations.

* ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.forms.JSONField``,
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.jsonb.KeyTransform``, and
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.jsonb.KeyTextTransform`` will be removed.

* The ``{% ifequal %}`` and ``{% ifnotequal %}`` template tags will be removed.

* The ``DEFAULT_HASHING_ALGORITHM`` transitional setting will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-3.1:

3.1
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 2.2 release notes <deprecated-features-2.2>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.utils.timezone.FixedOffset`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.core.paginator.QuerySetPaginator`` will be removed.

* A model's ``Meta.ordering`` will no longer affect ``GROUP BY`` queries.

* ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.fields.FloatRangeField`` and
  ``thibaud.contrib.postgres.forms.FloatRangeField`` will be removed.

* The ``FILE_CHARSET`` setting will be removed.

* ``thibaud.contrib.staticfiles.storage.CachedStaticFilesStorage`` will be
  removed.

* ``RemoteUserBackend.configure_user()`` will require ``request`` as the first
  positional argument.

* Support for ``SimpleTestCase.allow_database_queries`` and
  ``TransactionTestCase.multi_db`` will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-3.0:

3.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 2.0 release notes<deprecated-features-2.0>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``thibaud.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2`` module will be removed.

* ``thibaud.shortcuts.render_to_response()`` will be removed.

* The ``DEFAULT_CONTENT_TYPE`` setting will be removed.

* ``HttpRequest.xreadlines()`` will be removed.

* Support for the ``context`` argument of ``Field.from_db_value()`` and
  ``Expression.convert_value()`` will be removed.

* The ``field_name`` keyword argument of ``QuerySet.earliest()`` and
  ``latest()`` will be removed.

See the :ref:`Thibaud 2.1 release notes <deprecated-features-2.1>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.contrib.gis.db.models.functions.ForceRHR`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.http.cookie_date()`` will be removed.

* The ``staticfiles`` and ``admin_static`` template tag libraries will be
  removed.

* ``thibaud.contrib.staticfiles.templatetags.static()`` will be removed.

* The shim to allow ``InlineModelAdmin.has_add_permission()`` to be defined
  without an ``obj`` argument will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-2.1:

2.1
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.11 release notes<deprecated-features-1.11>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``contrib.auth.views.login()``, ``logout()``, ``password_change()``,
  ``password_change_done()``, ``password_reset()``, ``password_reset_done()``,
  ``password_reset_confirm()``, and ``password_reset_complete()`` will be
  removed.

* The ``extra_context`` parameter of ``contrib.auth.views.logout_then_login()``
  will be removed.

* ``thibaud.test.runner.setup_databases()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.translation.string_concat()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.core.cache.backends.memcached.PyLibMCCache`` will no longer support
  passing ``pylibmc`` behavior settings as top-level attributes of ``OPTIONS``.

* The ``host`` parameter of ``thibaud.utils.http.is_safe_url()`` will be
  removed.

* Silencing of exceptions raised while rendering the ``{% include %}`` template
  tag will be removed.

* ``DatabaseIntrospection.get_indexes()`` will be removed.

* The ``authenticate()`` method of authentication backends will require
  ``request`` as the first positional argument.

* The ``thibaud.db.models.permalink()`` decorator will be removed.

* The ``USE_ETAGS`` setting will be removed. ``CommonMiddleware`` and
  ``thibaud.utils.cache.patch_response_headers()`` will no longer set ETags.

* The ``Model._meta.has_auto_field`` attribute will be removed.

* ``url()``'s support for inline flags in regular expression groups (``(?i)``,
  ``(?L)``, ``(?m)``, ``(?s)``, and ``(?u)``) will be removed.

* Support for ``Widget.render()`` methods without the ``renderer`` argument
  will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-2.0:

2.0
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.9 release notes<deprecated-features-1.9>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``weak`` argument to ``thibaud.dispatch.signals.Signal.disconnect()`` will
  be removed.

* ``thibaud.db.backends.base.BaseDatabaseOperations.check_aggregate_support()``
  will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.forms.extras`` package will be removed.

* The ``assignment_tag`` helper will be removed.

* The ``host`` argument to ``assertsRedirects`` will be removed. The
  compatibility layer which allows absolute URLs to be considered equal to
  relative ones when the path is identical will also be removed.

* ``Field.rel`` will be removed.

* ``Field.remote_field.to`` attribute will be removed.

* The ``on_delete`` argument for ``ForeignKey`` and ``OneToOneField``  will be
  required.

* ``thibaud.db.models.fields.add_lazy_relation()`` will be removed.

* When time zone support is enabled, database backends that don't support time
  zones won't convert aware datetimes to naive values in UTC anymore when such
  values are passed as parameters to SQL queries executed outside of the ORM,
  e.g. with ``cursor.execute()``.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.auth.tests.utils.skipIfCustomUser()`` decorator will be
  removed.

* The ``GeoManager`` and ``GeoQuerySet`` classes will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geoip`` module will be removed.

* The ``supports_recursion`` check for template loaders will be removed from:

  * ``thibaud.template.engine.Engine.find_template()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loader_tags.ExtendsNode.find_template()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.base.Loader.supports_recursion()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.cached.Loader.supports_recursion()``

* The ``load_template()`` and ``load_template_sources()`` template loader
  methods will be removed.

* The ``template_dirs`` argument for template loaders will be removed:

  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.base.Loader.get_template()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.cached.Loader.cache_key()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.cached.Loader.get_template()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.cached.Loader.get_template_sources()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader.get_template_sources()``

* The ``thibaud.template.loaders.base.Loader.__call__()`` method will be
  removed.

* Support for custom error views with a single positional parameter will be
  dropped.

* The ``mime_type`` attribute of ``thibaud.utils.feedgenerator.Atom1Feed`` and
  ``thibaud.utils.feedgenerator.RssFeed`` will be removed in favor of
  ``content_type``.

* The ``app_name`` argument to ``thibaud.conf.urls.include()`` will be
  removed.

* Support for passing a 3-tuple as the first argument to ``include()`` will
  be removed.

* Support for setting a URL instance namespace without an application
  namespace will be removed.

* ``Field._get_val_from_obj()`` will be removed in favor of
  ``Field.value_from_object()``.

* ``thibaud.template.loaders.eggs.Loader`` will be removed.

* The ``current_app`` parameter to the ``contrib.auth`` views will be removed.

* The ``callable_obj`` keyword argument to
  ``SimpleTestCase.assertRaisesMessage()`` will be removed.

* Support for the ``allow_tags`` attribute on ``ModelAdmin`` methods will be
  removed.

* The ``enclosure`` keyword argument to ``SyndicationFeed.add_item()`` will be
  removed.

* The ``thibaud.template.loader.LoaderOrigin`` and
  ``thibaud.template.base.StringOrigin`` aliases for
  ``thibaud.template.base.Origin`` will be removed.

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.10 release notes <deprecated-features-1.10>` for more
details on these changes.

* The ``makemigrations --exit`` option will be removed.

* Support for direct assignment to a reverse foreign key or many-to-many
  relation will be removed.

* The ``get_srid()`` and ``set_srid()`` methods of
  ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.GEOSGeometry`` will be removed.

* The ``get_x()``, ``set_x()``, ``get_y()``, ``set_y()``, ``get_z()``, and
  ``set_z()`` methods of ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.Point`` will be removed.

* The ``get_coords()`` and ``set_coords()`` methods of
  ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.Point`` will be removed.

* The ``cascaded_union`` property of ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.MultiPolygon``
  will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.functional.allow_lazy()`` will be removed.

* The ``shell --plain`` option will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.core.urlresolvers`` module will be removed.

* The model ``CommaSeparatedIntegerField`` will be removed. A stub field will
  remain for compatibility with historical migrations.

* Support for the template ``Context.has_key()`` method will be removed.

* Support for the ``thibaud.core.files.storage.Storage.accessed_time()``,
  ``created_time()``, and ``modified_time()`` methods will be removed.

* Support for query lookups using the model name when
  ``Meta.default_related_name`` is set will be removed.

* The ``__search`` query lookup and the
  ``DatabaseOperations.fulltext_search_sql()`` method will be removed.

* The shim for supporting custom related manager classes without a
  ``_apply_rel_filters()`` method will be removed.

* Using ``User.is_authenticated()`` and ``User.is_anonymous()`` as methods
  will no longer be supported.

* The private attribute ``virtual_fields`` of ``Model._meta`` will be removed.

* The private keyword arguments ``virtual_only`` in
  ``Field.contribute_to_class()`` and ``virtual`` in
  ``Model._meta.add_field()`` will be removed.

* The ``javascript_catalog()`` and ``json_catalog()`` views will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.utils.precision_wkt()`` function will be removed.

* In multi-table inheritance, implicit promotion of a ``OneToOneField`` to a
  ``parent_link`` will be removed.

* Support for ``Widget._format_value()`` will be removed.

* ``FileField`` methods ``get_directory_name()`` and ``get_filename()`` will be
  removed.

* The ``mark_for_escaping()`` function and the classes it uses: ``EscapeData``,
  ``EscapeBytes``, ``EscapeText``, ``EscapeString``, and ``EscapeUnicode`` will
  be removed.

* The ``escape`` filter will change to use
  ``thibaud.utils.html.conditional_escape()``.

* ``Manager.use_for_related_fields`` will be removed.

* Model ``Manager`` inheritance will follow MRO inheritance rules and the
  ``Meta.manager_inheritance_from_future`` to opt-in to this behavior will be
  removed.

* Support for old-style middleware using ``settings.MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`` will
  be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.10:

1.10
----

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.8 release notes<deprecated-features-1.8>` for more
details on these changes.

* Support for calling a ``SQLCompiler`` directly as an alias for calling its
  ``quote_name_unless_alias`` method will be removed.

* ``cycle`` and ``firstof`` template tags will be removed from the ``future``
  template tag library (used during the 1.6/1.7 deprecation period).

* ``thibaud.conf.urls.patterns()`` will be removed.

* Support for the ``prefix`` argument to
  ``thibaud.conf.urls.i18n.i18n_patterns()`` will be removed.

* ``SimpleTestCase.urls`` will be removed.

* Using an incorrect count of unpacked values in the ``for`` template tag
  will raise an exception rather than fail silently.

* The ability to reverse URLs using a dotted Python path will be removed.

* The ability to use a dotted Python path for the ``LOGIN_URL`` and
  ``LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL`` settings will be removed.

* Support for :py:mod:`optparse` will be dropped for custom management commands
  (replaced by :py:mod:`argparse`).

* The class ``thibaud.core.management.NoArgsCommand`` will be removed. Use
  :class:`~thibaud.core.management.BaseCommand` instead, which takes no arguments
  by default.

* ``thibaud.core.context_processors`` module will be removed.

* ``thibaud.db.models.sql.aggregates`` module will be removed.

* ``thibaud.contrib.gis.db.models.sql.aggregates`` module will be removed.

* The following methods and properties of ``thibaud.db.sql.query.Query`` will
  be removed:

  * Properties: ``aggregates`` and ``aggregate_select``
  * Methods: ``add_aggregate``, ``set_aggregate_mask``, and
    ``append_aggregate_mask``.

* ``thibaud.template.resolve_variable`` will be removed.

* The following private APIs will be removed from
  :class:`thibaud.db.models.options.Options` (``Model._meta``):

  * ``get_field_by_name()``
  * ``get_all_field_names()``
  * ``get_fields_with_model()``
  * ``get_concrete_fields_with_model()``
  * ``get_m2m_with_model()``
  * ``get_all_related_objects()``
  * ``get_all_related_objects_with_model()``
  * ``get_all_related_many_to_many_objects()``
  * ``get_all_related_m2m_objects_with_model()``

* The ``error_message`` argument of ``thibaud.forms.RegexField`` will be removed.

* The ``unordered_list`` filter will no longer support old style lists.

* Support for string ``view`` arguments to ``url()`` will be removed.

* The backward compatible shim  to rename ``thibaud.forms.Form._has_changed()``
  to ``has_changed()`` will be removed.

* The ``removetags`` template filter will be removed.

* The ``remove_tags()`` and ``strip_entities()`` functions in
  ``thibaud.utils.html`` will be removed.

* The ``is_admin_site`` argument to
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.views.password_reset()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.db.models.field.subclassing.SubfieldBase`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.checksums`` will be removed; its functionality is included
  in ``thibaud-localflavor`` 1.1+.

* The ``original_content_type_id`` attribute on
  ``thibaud.contrib.admin.helpers.InlineAdminForm`` will be removed.

* The backwards compatibility shim to allow ``FormMixin.get_form()`` to be
  defined with no default value for its ``form_class`` argument will be removed.

* The following settings will be removed:

  * ``ALLOWED_INCLUDE_ROOTS``
  * ``TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS``
  * ``TEMPLATE_DEBUG``
  * ``TEMPLATE_DIRS``
  * ``TEMPLATE_LOADERS``
  * ``TEMPLATE_STRING_IF_INVALID``

* The backwards compatibility alias ``thibaud.template.loader.BaseLoader`` will
  be removed.

* Thibaud template objects returned by
  :func:`~thibaud.template.loader.get_template` and
  :func:`~thibaud.template.loader.select_template` won't accept a
  :class:`~thibaud.template.Context` in their
  :meth:`~thibaud.template.backends.base.Template.render()` method anymore.

* :doc:`Template response APIs </ref/template-response>` will enforce the use
  of :class:`dict` and backend-dependent template objects instead of
  :class:`~thibaud.template.Context` and :class:`~thibaud.template.Template`
  respectively.

* The ``current_app`` parameter for the following function and classes will be
  removed:

  * ``thibaud.shortcuts.render()``
  * ``thibaud.template.Context()``
  * ``thibaud.template.RequestContext()``
  * ``thibaud.template.response.TemplateResponse()``

* The ``dictionary`` and ``context_instance`` parameters for the following
  functions will be removed:

  * ``thibaud.shortcuts.render()``
  * ``thibaud.shortcuts.render_to_response()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loader.render_to_string()``

* The ``dirs`` parameter for the following functions will be removed:

  * ``thibaud.template.loader.get_template()``
  * ``thibaud.template.loader.select_template()``
  * ``thibaud.shortcuts.render()``
  * ``thibaud.shortcuts.render_to_response()``

* Session verification will be enabled regardless of whether or not
  ``'thibaud.contrib.auth.middleware.SessionAuthenticationMiddleware'`` is in
  ``MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES``.

* Private attribute ``thibaud.db.models.Field.related`` will be removed.

* The ``--list`` option of the ``migrate`` management command will be removed.

* The ``ssi`` template tag will be removed.

* Support for the ``=`` comparison operator in the ``if`` template tag will be
  removed.

* The backwards compatibility shims to allow ``Storage.get_available_name()``
  and ``Storage.save()`` to be defined without a ``max_length`` argument will
  be removed.

* Support for the legacy ``%(<foo>)s`` syntax in ``ModelFormMixin.success_url``
  will be removed.

* ``GeoQuerySet`` aggregate methods ``collect()``, ``extent()``, ``extent3d()``,
  ``make_line()``, and ``unionagg()`` will be removed.

* Ability to specify ``ContentType.name`` when creating a content type instance
  will be removed.

* Support for the old signature of ``allow_migrate`` will be removed. It changed
  from ``allow_migrate(self, db, model)`` to
  ``allow_migrate(self, db, app_label, model_name=None, **hints)``.

* Support for the syntax of ``{% cycle %}`` that uses comma-separated arguments
  will be removed.

* The warning that :class:`~thibaud.core.signing.Signer` issues when given an
  invalid separator will become an exception.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.9:

1.9
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.7 release notes<deprecated-features-1.7>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.utils.dictconfig`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.importlib`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.tzinfo`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.unittest`` will be removed.

* The ``syncdb`` command will be removed.

* ``thibaud.db.models.signals.pre_syncdb`` and
  ``thibaud.db.models.signals.post_syncdb`` will be removed.

* ``allow_syncdb`` on database routers will no longer automatically become
  ``allow_migrate``.

* Automatic syncing of apps without migrations will be removed. Migrations will
  become compulsory for all apps unless you pass the ``--run-syncdb`` option to
  ``migrate``.

* The SQL management commands for apps without migrations, ``sql``, ``sqlall``,
  ``sqlclear``, ``sqldropindexes``, and ``sqlindexes``, will be removed.

* Support for automatic loading of ``initial_data`` fixtures and initial SQL
  data will be removed.

* All models will need to be defined inside an installed application or
  declare an explicit :attr:`~thibaud.db.models.Options.app_label`.
  Furthermore, it won't be possible to import them before their application
  is loaded. In particular, it won't be possible to import models inside
  the root package of their application.

* The model and form ``IPAddressField`` will be removed. A stub field will
  remain for compatibility with historical migrations.

* ``AppCommand.handle_app()`` will no longer be supported.

* ``RequestSite`` and ``get_current_site()`` will no longer be importable from
  ``thibaud.contrib.sites.models``.

* FastCGI support via the ``runfcgi`` management command will be
  removed. Please deploy your project using WSGI.

* ``thibaud.utils.datastructures.SortedDict`` will be removed. Use
  :class:`collections.OrderedDict` from the Python standard library instead.

* ``ModelAdmin.declared_fieldsets`` will be removed.

* Instances of ``util.py`` in the Thibaud codebase have been renamed to
  ``utils.py`` in an effort to unify all util and utils references.
  The modules that provided backwards compatibility will be removed:

  * ``thibaud.contrib.admin.util``
  * ``thibaud.contrib.gis.db.backends.util``
  * ``thibaud.db.backends.util``
  * ``thibaud.forms.util``

* ``ModelAdmin.get_formsets`` will be removed.

* The backward compatibility shim introduced to rename the
  ``BaseMemcachedCache._get_memcache_timeout()`` method to
  ``get_backend_timeout()`` will be removed.

* The ``--natural`` and ``-n`` options for :djadmin:`dumpdata` will be removed.

* The ``use_natural_keys`` argument for ``serializers.serialize()`` will be
  removed.

* Private API ``thibaud.forms.forms.get_declared_fields()`` will be removed.

* The ability to use a ``SplitDateTimeWidget`` with ``DateTimeField`` will be
  removed.

* The ``WSGIRequest.REQUEST`` property will be removed.

* The class ``thibaud.utils.datastructures.MergeDict`` will be removed.

* The ``zh-cn`` and ``zh-tw`` language codes will be removed and have been
  replaced by the ``zh-hans`` and ``zh-hant`` language code respectively.

* The internal ``thibaud.utils.functional.memoize`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.core.cache.get_cache`` will be removed. Add suitable entries
  to :setting:`CACHES` and use :data:`thibaud.core.cache.caches` instead.

* ``thibaud.db.models.loading`` will be removed.

* Passing callable arguments to querysets will no longer be possible.

* ``BaseCommand.requires_model_validation`` will be removed in favor of
  ``requires_system_checks``. Admin validators will be replaced by admin
  checks.

* The ``ModelAdmin.validator_class`` and ``default_validator_class`` attributes
  will be removed.

* ``ModelAdmin.validate()`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.db.backends.DatabaseValidation.validate_field`` will be removed in
  favor of the ``check_field`` method.

* The ``validate`` management command will be removed.

* ``thibaud.utils.module_loading.import_by_path`` will be removed in favor of
  ``thibaud.utils.module_loading.import_string``.

* ``ssi`` and ``url`` template tags will be removed from the ``future`` template
  tag library (used during the 1.3/1.4 deprecation period).

* ``thibaud.utils.text.javascript_quote`` will be removed.

* Database test settings as independent entries in the database settings,
  prefixed by ``TEST_``, will no longer be supported.

* The ``cache_choices`` option to :class:`~thibaud.forms.ModelChoiceField` and
  :class:`~thibaud.forms.ModelMultipleChoiceField` will be removed.

* The default value of the
  :attr:`RedirectView.permanent <thibaud.views.generic.base.RedirectView.permanent>`
  attribute will change from ``True`` to ``False``.

* ``thibaud.contrib.sitemaps.FlatPageSitemap`` will be removed in favor of
  ``thibaud.contrib.flatpages.sitemaps.FlatPageSitemap``.

* Private API ``thibaud.test.utils.TestTemplateLoader`` will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.contenttypes.generic`` module will be removed.

* Private APIs ``thibaud.db.models.sql.where.WhereNode.make_atom()`` and
  ``thibaud.db.models.sql.where.Constraint`` will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.8:

1.8
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.6 release notes<deprecated-features-1.6>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.contrib.comments`` will be removed.

* The following transaction management APIs will be removed:

  - ``TransactionMiddleware``,
  - the decorators and context managers ``autocommit``, ``commit_on_success``,
    and ``commit_manually``, defined in ``thibaud.db.transaction``,
  - the functions ``commit_unless_managed`` and ``rollback_unless_managed``,
    also defined in ``thibaud.db.transaction``,
  - the ``TRANSACTIONS_MANAGED`` setting.

* The :ttag:`cycle` and :ttag:`firstof` template tags will auto-escape their
  arguments. In 1.6 and 1.7, this behavior is provided by the version of these
  tags in the ``future`` template tag library.

* The ``SEND_BROKEN_LINK_EMAILS`` setting will be removed. Add the
  :class:`thibaud.middleware.common.BrokenLinkEmailsMiddleware` middleware to
  your ``MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`` setting instead.

* ``thibaud.middleware.doc.XViewMiddleware`` will be removed. Use
  ``thibaud.contrib.admindocs.middleware.XViewMiddleware`` instead.

* ``Model._meta.module_name`` was renamed to ``model_name``.

* Remove the backward compatible shims introduced to rename ``get_query_set``
  and similar queryset methods. This affects the following classes:
  ``BaseModelAdmin``, ``ChangeList``, ``BaseCommentNode``,
  ``GenericForeignKey``, ``Manager``, ``SingleRelatedObjectDescriptor`` and
  ``ReverseSingleRelatedObjectDescriptor``.

* Remove the backward compatible shims introduced to rename the attributes
  ``ChangeList.root_query_set`` and ``ChangeList.query_set``.

* ``thibaud.views.defaults.shortcut`` will be removed, as part of the
  goal of removing all ``thibaud.contrib`` references from the core
  Thibaud codebase. Instead use
  ``thibaud.contrib.contenttypes.views.shortcut``. ``thibaud.conf.urls.shortcut``
  will also be removed.

* Support for the Python Imaging Library (PIL) module will be removed, as it
  no longer appears to be actively maintained & does not work on Python 3.

* The following private APIs will be removed:

  - ``thibaud.db.backend``
  - ``thibaud.db.close_connection()``
  - ``thibaud.db.backends.creation.BaseDatabaseCreation.set_autocommit()``
  - ``thibaud.db.transaction.is_managed()``
  - ``thibaud.db.transaction.managed()``

* ``thibaud.forms.widgets.RadioInput`` will be removed in favor of
  ``thibaud.forms.widgets.RadioChoiceInput``.

* The module ``thibaud.test.simple`` and the class
  ``thibaud.test.simple.ThibaudTestSuiteRunner`` will be removed. Instead use
  ``thibaud.test.runner.DiscoverRunner``.

* The module ``thibaud.test._doctest`` will be removed. Instead use the doctest
  module from the Python standard library.

* The ``CACHE_MIDDLEWARE_ANONYMOUS_ONLY`` setting will be removed.

* Usage of the hard-coded *Hold down "Control", or "Command" on a Mac, to select
  more than one.* string to override or append to user-provided ``help_text`` in
  forms for ManyToMany model fields will not be performed by Thibaud anymore
  either at the model or forms layer.

* The ``Model._meta.get_(add|change|delete)_permission`` methods will
  be removed.

* The session key ``thibaud_language`` will no longer be read for backwards
  compatibility.

* Geographic Sitemaps will be removed
  (``thibaud.contrib.gis.sitemaps.views.index`` and
  ``thibaud.contrib.gis.sitemaps.views.sitemap``).

* ``thibaud.utils.html.fix_ampersands``, the ``fix_ampersands`` template filter and
  ``thibaud.utils.html.clean_html`` will be removed following an accelerated deprecation.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.7:

1.7
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.5 release notes<deprecated-features-1.5>` for more
details on these changes.

* The module ``thibaud.utils.simplejson`` will be removed. The standard library
  provides :mod:`json` which should be used instead.

* The function ``thibaud.utils.itercompat.product`` will be removed. The Python
  builtin version should be used instead.

* Auto-correction of INSTALLED_APPS and TEMPLATE_DIRS settings when they are
  specified as a plain string instead of a tuple will be removed and raise an
  exception.

* The ``mimetype`` argument to the ``__init__`` methods of
  :class:`~thibaud.http.HttpResponse`,
  :class:`~thibaud.template.response.SimpleTemplateResponse`, and
  :class:`~thibaud.template.response.TemplateResponse`, will be removed.
  ``content_type`` should be used instead. This also applies to the
  ``render_to_response()`` shortcut and the sitemap views,
  :func:`~thibaud.contrib.sitemaps.views.index` and
  :func:`~thibaud.contrib.sitemaps.views.sitemap`.

* When :class:`~thibaud.http.HttpResponse` is instantiated with an iterator,
  or when :attr:`~thibaud.http.HttpResponse.content` is set to an iterator,
  that iterator will be immediately consumed.

* The ``AUTH_PROFILE_MODULE`` setting, and the ``get_profile()`` method on
  the User model, will be removed.

* The ``cleanup`` management command will be removed. It's replaced by
  ``clearsessions``.

* The ``daily_cleanup.py`` script will be removed.

* The ``depth`` keyword argument will be removed from
  :meth:`~thibaud.db.models.query.QuerySet.select_related`.

* The undocumented ``get_warnings_state()``/``restore_warnings_state()``
  functions from :mod:`thibaud.test.utils` and the ``save_warnings_state()``/
  ``restore_warnings_state()``
  :ref:`thibaud.test.*TestCase <thibaud-testcase-subclasses>` methods are
  deprecated. Use the :class:`warnings.catch_warnings` context manager
  available starting with Python 2.6 instead.

* The undocumented ``check_for_test_cookie`` method in
  :class:`~thibaud.contrib.auth.forms.AuthenticationForm` will be removed
  following an accelerated deprecation. Users subclassing this form should
  remove calls to this method, and instead ensure that their auth related views
  are CSRF protected, which ensures that cookies are enabled.

* The version of ``thibaud.contrib.auth.views.password_reset_confirm()`` that
  supports base36 encoded user IDs
  (``thibaud.contrib.auth.views.password_reset_confirm_uidb36``) will be
  removed. If your site has been running Thibaud 1.6 for more than
  ``PASSWORD_RESET_TIMEOUT_DAYS``, this change will have no effect. If not,
  then any password reset links generated before you upgrade to Thibaud 1.7
  won't work after the upgrade.

* The ``thibaud.utils.encoding.StrAndUnicode`` mix-in will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.6:

1.6
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.4 release notes<deprecated-features-1.4>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``thibaud.contrib.databrowse`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.contrib.localflavor`` will be removed following an accelerated
  deprecation.

* ``thibaud.contrib.markup`` will be removed following an accelerated
  deprecation.

* The compatibility modules ``thibaud.utils.copycompat`` and
  ``thibaud.utils.hashcompat`` as well as the functions
  ``thibaud.utils.itercompat.all`` and ``thibaud.utils.itercompat.any`` will
  be removed. The Python builtin versions should be used instead.

* The ``csrf_response_exempt`` and ``csrf_view_exempt`` decorators will
  be removed. Since 1.4 ``csrf_response_exempt`` has been a no-op (it
  returns the same function), and ``csrf_view_exempt`` has been a
  synonym for ``thibaud.views.decorators.csrf.csrf_exempt``, which should
  be used to replace it.

* The ``thibaud.core.cache.backends.memcached.CacheClass`` backend
  was split into two in Thibaud 1.3 in order to introduce support for
  PyLibMC. The historical ``CacheClass`` will be removed in favor of
  ``thibaud.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache``.

* The UK-prefixed objects of ``thibaud.contrib.localflavor.uk`` will only
  be accessible through their GB-prefixed names (GB is the correct
  ISO 3166 code for United Kingdom).

* The ``IGNORABLE_404_STARTS`` and ``IGNORABLE_404_ENDS`` settings have been
  superseded by :setting:`IGNORABLE_404_URLS` in the 1.4 release. They will be
  removed.

* The form wizard has been refactored to use class-based views with pluggable
  backends in 1.4. The previous implementation will be removed.

* Legacy ways of calling
  :func:`~thibaud.views.decorators.cache.cache_page` will be removed.

* The backward-compatibility shim to automatically add a debug-false
  filter to the ``'mail_admins'`` logging handler will be removed. The
  :setting:`LOGGING` setting should include this filter explicitly if
  it is desired.

* The builtin truncation functions ``thibaud.utils.text.truncate_words()``
  and ``thibaud.utils.text.truncate_html_words()`` will be removed in
  favor of the ``thibaud.utils.text.Truncator`` class.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geoip.GeoIP`` class was moved to
  ``thibaud.contrib.gis.geoip`` in 1.4 -- the shortcut in
  ``thibaud.contrib.gis.utils`` will be removed.

* ``thibaud.conf.urls.defaults`` will be removed. The functions
  ``include()``, ``patterns()``, and ``url()``, plus
  :data:`~thibaud.conf.urls.handler404` and :data:`~thibaud.conf.urls.handler500`
  are now available through ``thibaud.conf.urls``.

* The functions ``setup_environ()`` and ``execute_manager()`` will be removed
  from :mod:`thibaud.core.management`. This also means that the old (pre-1.4)
  style of :file:`manage.py` file will no longer work.

* Setting the ``is_safe`` and ``needs_autoescape`` flags as attributes of
  template filter functions will no longer be supported.

* The attribute ``HttpRequest.raw_post_data`` was renamed to ``HttpRequest.body``
  in 1.4. The backward compatibility will be removed --
  ``HttpRequest.raw_post_data`` will no longer work.

* The value for the ``post_url_continue`` parameter in
  ``ModelAdmin.response_add()`` will have to be either ``None`` (to redirect
  to the newly created object's edit page) or a pre-formatted url. String
  formats, such as the previous default ``'../%s/'``, will not be accepted any
  more.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.5:

1.5
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.3 release notes<deprecated-features-1.3>` for more
details on these changes.

* Starting Thibaud without a :setting:`SECRET_KEY` will result in an exception
  rather than a ``DeprecationWarning``. (This is accelerated from the usual
  deprecation path; see the :doc:`Thibaud 1.4 release notes</releases/1.4>`.)

* The ``mod_python`` request handler will be removed. The ``mod_wsgi``
  handler should be used instead.

* The ``template`` attribute on ``thibaud.test.client.Response``
  objects returned by the :ref:`test client <test-client>` will be removed.
  The :attr:`~thibaud.test.Response.templates` attribute should be
  used instead.

* The ``thibaud.test.simple.ThibaudTestRunner`` will be removed.
  Instead use a ``unittest``-native class. The features of the
  ``thibaud.test.simple.ThibaudTestRunner`` (including fail-fast and
  Ctrl-C test termination) can be provided by :class:`unittest.TextTestRunner`.

* The undocumented function
  ``thibaud.contrib.formtools.utils.security_hash`` will be removed,
  instead use ``thibaud.contrib.formtools.utils.form_hmac``

* The function-based generic view modules will be removed in favor of their
  class-based equivalents, outlined :doc:`here
  </topics/class-based-views/index>`.

* The ``thibaud.core.servers.basehttp.AdminMediaHandler`` will be
  removed.  In its place use
  ``thibaud.contrib.staticfiles.handlers.StaticFilesHandler``.

* The template tags library ``adminmedia`` and the template tag ``{%
  admin_media_prefix %}`` will be removed in favor of the generic static files
  handling. (This is faster than the usual deprecation path; see the
  :doc:`Thibaud 1.4 release notes</releases/1.4>`.)

* The ``url`` and ``ssi`` template tags will be modified so that the first
  argument to each tag is a template variable, not an implied string. In 1.4,
  this behavior is provided by a version of the tag in the ``future`` template
  tag library.

* The ``reset`` and ``sqlreset`` management commands will be removed.

* Authentication backends will need to support an inactive user
  being passed to all methods dealing with permissions.
  The ``supports_inactive_user`` attribute will no longer be checked
  and can be removed from custom backends.

* :meth:`~thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.GEOSGeometry.transform` will raise
  a :class:`~thibaud.contrib.gis.geos.GEOSException` when called
  on a geometry with no SRID value.

* ``thibaud.http.CompatCookie`` will be removed in favor of
  ``thibaud.http.SimpleCookie``.

* ``thibaud.core.context_processors.PermWrapper`` and
  ``thibaud.core.context_processors.PermLookupDict`` will be removed in
  favor of the corresponding
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.context_processors.PermWrapper`` and
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.context_processors.PermLookupDict``, respectively.

* The :setting:`MEDIA_URL` or :setting:`STATIC_URL` settings will be
  required to end with a trailing slash to ensure there is a consistent
  way to combine paths in templates.

* ``thibaud.db.models.fields.URLField.verify_exists`` will be removed. The
  feature was deprecated in 1.3.1 due to intractable security and
  performance issues and will follow a slightly accelerated deprecation
  timeframe.

* Translations located under the so-called *project path* will be ignored during
  the translation building process performed at runtime. The
  :setting:`LOCALE_PATHS` setting can be used for the same task by including the
  filesystem path to a ``locale`` directory containing non-app-specific
  translations in its value.

* The Markup contrib app will no longer support versions of Python-Markdown
  library earlier than 2.1. An accelerated timeline was used as this was
  a security related deprecation.

* The ``CACHE_BACKEND`` setting will be removed. The cache backend(s) should be
  specified in the :setting:`CACHES` setting.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.4:

1.4
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.2 release notes<deprecated-features-1.2>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``CsrfResponseMiddleware`` and ``CsrfMiddleware`` will be removed.  Use
  the ``{% csrf_token %}`` template tag inside forms to enable CSRF
  protection. ``CsrfViewMiddleware`` remains and is enabled by default.

* The old imports for CSRF functionality (``thibaud.contrib.csrf.*``),
  which moved to core in 1.2, will be removed.

* The ``thibaud.contrib.gis.db.backend`` module will be removed in favor
  of the specific backends.

* ``SMTPConnection`` will be removed in favor of a generic email backend API.

* The many to many SQL generation functions on the database backends
  will be removed.

* The ability to use the ``DATABASE_*`` family of top-level settings to
  define database connections will be removed.

* The ability to use shorthand notation to specify a database backend
  (i.e., ``sqlite3`` instead of ``thibaud.db.backends.sqlite3``) will be
  removed.

* The ``get_db_prep_save``, ``get_db_prep_value`` and
  ``get_db_prep_lookup`` methods will have to support multiple databases.

* The ``Message`` model (in ``thibaud.contrib.auth``), its related
  manager in the ``User`` model (``user.message_set``), and the
  associated methods (``user.message_set.create()`` and
  ``user.get_and_delete_messages()``), will be removed.  The
  :doc:`messages framework </ref/contrib/messages>` should be used
  instead. The related ``messages`` variable returned by the
  auth context processor will also be removed. Note that this
  means that the admin application will depend on the messages
  context processor.

* Authentication backends will need to support the ``obj`` parameter for
  permission checking. The ``supports_object_permissions`` attribute
  will no longer be checked and can be removed from custom backends.

* Authentication backends will need to support the ``AnonymousUser`` class
  being passed to all methods dealing with permissions.  The
  ``supports_anonymous_user`` variable will no longer be checked and can be
  removed from custom backends.

* The ability to specify a callable template loader rather than a
  ``Loader`` class will be removed, as will the ``load_template_source``
  functions that are included with the built in template loaders for
  backwards compatibility.

* ``thibaud.utils.translation.get_date_formats()`` and
  ``thibaud.utils.translation.get_partial_date_formats()``. These functions
  will be removed; use the locale-aware
  ``thibaud.utils.formats.get_format()`` to get the appropriate formats.

* In ``thibaud.forms.fields``, the constants: ``DEFAULT_DATE_INPUT_FORMATS``,
  ``DEFAULT_TIME_INPUT_FORMATS`` and
  ``DEFAULT_DATETIME_INPUT_FORMATS`` will be removed. Use
  ``thibaud.utils.formats.get_format()`` to get the appropriate
  formats.

* The ability to use a function-based test runner will be removed,
  along with the ``thibaud.test.simple.run_tests()`` test runner.

* The ``views.feed()`` view and ``feeds.Feed`` class in
  ``thibaud.contrib.syndication`` will be removed. The class-based view
  ``views.Feed`` should be used instead.

* ``thibaud.core.context_processors.auth``.  This release will
  remove the old method in favor of the new method in
  ``thibaud.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth``.

* The ``postgresql`` database backend will be removed, use the
  ``postgresql_psycopg2`` backend instead.

* The ``no`` language code will be removed and has been replaced by the
  ``nb`` language code.

* Authentication backends will need to define the boolean attribute
  ``supports_inactive_user`` until version 1.5 when it will be assumed that
  all backends will handle inactive users.

* ``thibaud.db.models.fields.XMLField`` will be removed. This was
  deprecated as part of the 1.3 release. An accelerated deprecation
  schedule has been used because the field hasn't performed any role
  beyond that of a simple ``TextField`` since the removal of ``oldforms``.
  All uses of ``XMLField`` can be replaced with ``TextField``.

* The undocumented ``mixin`` parameter to the ``open()`` method of
  ``thibaud.core.files.storage.Storage`` (and subclasses) will be removed.

.. _deprecation-removed-in-1.3:

1.3
---

See the :ref:`Thibaud 1.1 release notes<deprecated-features-1.1>` for more
details on these changes.

* ``AdminSite.root()``.  This method of hooking up the admin URLs will be
  removed in favor of including ``admin.site.urls``.

* Authentication backends need to define the boolean attributes
  ``supports_object_permissions`` and ``supports_anonymous_user`` until
  version 1.4, at which point it will be assumed that all backends will
  support these options.
