# Multiple lists

You discovered that your bookmarks list is a simple text file with links. But why not have multiple files so you can handle those differently?

That’s the purpose of "list". Let’s see the list we already have:

> list


We see the bookmarks list and, surprise, we have "system lists". Let’s discuss those later and focus on normal lists first.

You can create a list with "list create NAME". Let’s try to make a list with all the link you would like to read later. We will call it "toread" but anything will do as long as it doesn’t exist yet.

> list create toread

Adding a link to the "toread" list is only a matter of giving the name to "add".

> add toread

Pro tip: there’s autocompletion on the name of your lists when adding. If a list has a long name, simply press the tab key after the first letters. 

To display your newly created list, use "list"

> list toread

Once again, you can use autocomplete.

To remove a link from toread, you need to archive it. Just like in bookmarks. But remember that Offpunk has no other context than the current page. If you archive a page, it will be removed from every list (except history and archives)

Try the following:

> add
> add toread
> archive

If you want to move the current page from a list to another, use "move". For example, we will put the current page in the bookmarks then move it into the "toread" list.

> add
> move toread

You probably guessed that, to edit the list, you can simply:

> list edit toread

We start to use the "archive" command a lot. But what happens to archived links? Well, they are simply put in a list called "archives". The archives list is special as it contains the last 200 archived URL. You can see it with:

> list archives

List is probably one of the most powerful command in Offpunk. You can get a taste with:

> help list

Let’s now explore how you could manage your RSS/blog/gemlogs subscriptions through lists.

=> /subscriptions.gmi Managing subscriptions with lists
