.Dd November 25, 2024
.Dt ANSICAT 1
.Os 
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm ansicat
.Nd terminal gemini gemtext renderer for offpunk
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-format Ar RENDERER
.Op Fl \-mime Ar MIME
.Op Fl \-url Ar URL ...
.Op Fl \-mode Ar MODE
.Op Ar INPUT ...
.Nm
.Fl h | \-help
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
ansicat is a terminal rendering tool
that will render multiple formats
(HTML, Gemtext, RSS, Gophermap, Image)
into ANSI text and colors.
When used on a file,
ansicat will try to autodetect the format.
When used with standard input,
the format must be manually specified.
If the content contains links,
the original URL of the content can be specified
in order to correctly modify relatives links.
.Ss Positional arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Ar INPUT
path to the text to render.
It defaults to the standard input.
.El
.Ss Keyword arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Fl h , \-help
show a help message and exit.
.It Fl \-format Ar RENDERER
renderer to use.
Available renderers are
.Ic auto ,
.Ic gemtext ,
.Ic html ,
.Ic feed ,
.Ic gopher ,
.Ic image ,
and
.Ic folder .
The
.Ic auto
renderer will heuristically guess the format,
either thanks to the MIME type,
or from the file being rendered itself.
.It Fl \-mime Ar MIME
MIME type of the content to parse.
.It Fl \-mode Ar MODE
MODE to use to render to choose between normal (default), full or source
.It Fl \-url Ar URL ...
original URL of the content.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr migrate-offpunk-cache 1 ,
.Xr netcache 1 ,
.Xr offpunk 1 ,
.Xr opnk 1 ,
.Lk https://offpunk.net/
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lionel Dricot (Ploum) Aq Mt offpunk2 at ploum.eu
