.Dd March 3, 2023
.Dt OFFPUNK 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm offpunk
.Nd command line gemini client
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-bookmarks
.Op Fl \-tls\-cert Ar FILE
.Op Fl \-tls\-key Ar FILE
.Op Fl \-sync
.Op Fl \-assume\-yes
.Op Fl \-disable\-http
.Op Fl \-fetch\-later
.Op Fl \-depth Ar DEPTH
.Op Fl \-cache\-validity Ar CACHE_VALIDITY
.Op Ar URL ...
.Nm
.Fl h | \-help
.Nm
.Fl \-version
.Nm
.Fl \-features
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Offpunk is a command-line browser and feed reader dedicated to browsing the Web,
Gemini, Gopher and Spartan.
Thanks to its permanent cache, it is optimised to be used offline with rare
connections but works as well when connected.
.Pp
Offpunk is optimised for reading and supports readability mode, displaying
pictures, subscribing to pages or RSS feeds,
managing complex lists of bookmarks.
Its integrated help and easy commands make it a perfect tool for command-line
novices while power-users will be amazed by its shell integration.
.Ss Positional arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It URL
start with this URL
.El
.Ss Keyword arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Fl h , \-help
Show a help message and exit
.It Fl \-bookmarks
start with your list of bookmarks
.It Fl \-tls\-cert Ar FILE
TLS client certificate file
.It Fl \-tls\-key Ar FILE
TLS client certificate private key file
.It Fl \-sync
run non\-interactively to build cache by exploring bookmarks
.It Fl \-assume\-yes
assume\-yes when asked questions about certificates/redirections during sync
(lower security)
.It Fl \-disable\-http
do not try to get http(s) links (but already cached will be displayed)
.It Fl \-fetch\-later
run non\-interactively with an URL as argument to fetch it later
.It Fl \-depth Ar DEPTH
depth of the cache to build.
Default is 1.
More is crazy.
Use at your own risks!
.It Fl \-cache\-validity Ar CACHE_VALIDITY
duration for which a cache is valid before sync (seconds)
.It Fl \-version
display version information and quit
.It Fl \-features
display available features and dependancies then quit
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ansicat 1 ,
.Xr migrate-offpunk-cache 1 ,
.Xr netcache 1 ,
.Xr opnk 1 ,
.Lk https://sr.ht/~lioploum/offpunk/
.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
is a fork of the original AV-98 by
.An Solderpunk
and was originally called AV-98-offline as an experimental branch.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lionel Dricot (Ploum) Aq Mt offpunk2 at ploum.eu
