.Dd August 27, 2023
.Dt NETCACHE 1
.Os 
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm netcache
.Nd local Internet cache handler for offpunk
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-path
.Op Fl \-offline
.Op Fl \-max\-size Ar MAX_SIZE
.Op Fl \-timeout Ar TIMEOUT
.Op Ar URL ...
.Nm
.Fl h | \-help
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Netcache is the download and cache management engine of the browser
.Xr offpunk 1 .
It allows one to fetch a link and get its content,
writing the content through the local cache for ulterior reference.
Netcache can be forced into offline mode,
in order to only fetch resources from the local cache,
otherwise it would always refresh it from the version available online.
It is also useful for mapping a given URL to its location in the cache,
independently of whether it has been downloaded first.
.Pp
Default cache path is
.Pa ~/.cache/offpunk .
Set
.Ev OFFPUNK_CACHE_PATH
environment variable to use another location.
.Bd -literal
OFFPUNK_CACHE_PATH=/home/ploum/custom-cache netcache.py gemini://some.url
.Ed
.Pp
.Xr Offpunk 1
is a command-line browser and feed reader dedicated to browsing the Web,
Gemini, Gopher and Spartan.
.Ss Positional arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Ar URL
download the URL and output the content.
.El
.Ss Keyword arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Fl h , \-help
show a help message and exit.
.It Fl \-path
output the path to the cache instead of the content of the URL.
.It Fl \-max-size Ar MAX_SIZE
cancel download of items above that size.
The value is expressed in megabytes.
.It Fl \-timeout Ar TIMEOUT
time to wait before cancelling connection.
The value is expressed in seconds.
.It Fl \-cache-validity CACHE_VALIDITY
Maximum age (in second) of the cached version before redownloading a new version.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ansicat 1 ,
.Xr migrate-offpunk-cache 1 ,
.Xr offpunk 1 ,
.Xr opnk 1 ,
.Lk https://offpunk.net/
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lionel Dricot (Ploum) Aq Mt offpunk2 at ploum.eu
